We've now introduced two weights for
terms and
documents to use in our information
retrieval making process.
Term frequency and
inverse document frequency.
In this segment we're going to put
them together to get the tf-idf weight
of terms.
The tf-idf weight of a term
in a document right here,
is simply the product of its tf
weight scaled with a log term as we
discussed before, times its
inverse document frequency weight.
This is the best known weighting scheme
for terms in information retrieval.
There's been a lot of research and
there are many others.
But if you only know one,
it's the one to know.
Note in particular one fine point,
so this little dash or
hyphen here in this tf-idf weighting,
that's a hyphen, it's not a minus sign.
But we're taking a product, so
sometimes people indicate that
more explicitly by using a dot,
or using a multiplication sign.
So what are the features
of tf-idf weighting?
tf-idf weighting increases with the number
of times the term occurs in the document.
So that the tf-idf weight for
a query term depends on the document,
it's not independent of the document.
And then the tf-idf weight for
a term also goes up with
the rarity of the term in the collection,
that's from the idf weighting here.
So using this to find
the ranking of documents for
a query, what we're doing to work out
the score of the query in the document,
is we're taking the terms that
appear in both the query and
the document,
the rest of them have no weighting.
And then we're working out this tf.idf
weight for each of those terms, and
then we're summing them to give the score
of the document with respect to the query.
So what have we done here?
What we've done is we've gradually
moved from first binary vectors
in the original model of doing
Boolean information retrieval,
to count vectors, which we used when
we just had an unscaled term frequency.
To now, we have weight vectors for
a document,
and hence a weight matrix
between terms and documents.
And that's now what we see here.
So each document is now being
represented by a real valued vector.
So, for example,
the document Julius Caesar is
being represented by this vector.
So that for each document, it's in
the vector space of real valued numbers,
where the dimensionality is the number of
different terms in our collection again.
Okay, and then when we have a bunch
of these vectors for each document in
our collection, we have a term document
matrix which is now a real valued matrix.
We'll say a little bit more later about
what some of the properties of this is.
But hopefully seeing this kind of term
document matrix of real numbers there's
enough to see, how we can do a ranking
of documents according to some query.
According to these tf-idf
scores that we've assigned for
each term and each document.
So that's tf-idf weighting,
one of the most central concepts
in information retrieval systems.